README.md, before:

# ISP Toolbox Webserver

ISP Toolbox Backend Server Code

- powers market evaluator, network cost comparison, los-check, dsm-export
- hosted: AWS, EC2, S3
- database: AWS Postgres
- KV store: Elasticache - redis
- domain: https://isptoolbox.io/

## Development Philosophy:

- Move Fast and Break Things! - Get to market as fast as possible, you want people to use your code and improve connectivity with it
- Don't reinvent the wheel - ["not invented here"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_invented_here) syndrome is real, always research if someone already built what you want
- [KISS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle) - keep it simple, stupid
- [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself) - don't repeat yourself

## Main Technologies / Frameworks:

This is basically the Instagram techstack

- [Django](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/) - web framework + ORM
- [Celery](https://docs.celeryproject.org/en/stable/) - async tasks (things that aren't CRUD)
- [django rest framework](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/) - ORM -> REST API generator
- [Channels](https://channels.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) - websocket interface

All of these frameworks have stellar open source documentation, so be sure to consult them

## Getting Dev Environment Setup

- get AWS account `fbc-tower-design` - bunnylol aws
- create EC2 instance from template
- chmod 400 on .pem file
- ssh using the isptoolbox.pem in the lastpass folder - ask a dev for the pem
- install docker and docker compose

## Docker Note: installing docker on amzn ami (yum package manager - aws package repository)

The commands for installing docker on the AWS ami are slightly different than the official docker docs:

```
sudo yum update -y; sudo amazon-linux-extras install docker;
sudo service docker start; sudo usermod -a -G docker ec2-user;
```

- ensure docker daemon is running (dockerd)
- clone git repository
  - make sure you clone all submodules `git submodule update --init --recursive`
- `make setup_dev` to build docker containers - these will have volume mounts - this enables hot reloading code, only re-run this if you've added an npm module or modified the pip/conda dependencies
- `make run_dev` to run locally on localhost:8000

## Make command list

`make setup_dev`

- Installs required packages on system. Should only need to be ran once during first-time setup.

`make run_dev`

- Runs code in development environment
  - gis data is production
  - your local code checkout is mounted as a volume in docker
  - hot reloading should be enabled

`make update`

- Updates and/or installs python packages as definred in requirements.txt via pip.

`make makemigrations`

- Creates django migrations for model changes.

`make migrate`

- Performs django migrations for model changes.

`make run`

- Starts the webserver.

`make run_test`

- Starts the e2e testing version of the server.
  - Server will be slower because of backend instrumentation.
  - Same DB/code checkout configuration as `run_dev`
  - hot reloading disabled

## Code coverage in dev/test

**Prerequisites:** You will need to pip install the following packages on your dev host:

```
coverage==5.5
```

After running tests/doing manual testing on the `run_test` version of the server, stop the server, then do the following:

```
cd webserver
python3 ../scripts/create_coverage_file.py .coveragerc-base .coveragerc-dev .coveragerc
coverage combine
coverage report
coverage html
coverage erase
```

You should have a copy of the integration test coverage under `coverage/htmlcov/index.html`

## Running fbctower locally with WWW OnDemand

1. On your EC2 instance

   `make run_dev`

this will startup the whole backend stack on your machine

in VSCode forward port 8000 to your localhost (macbook)

![Alt text](images/port_forwarding.png?raw=true "Title")

2. On your WWW OnDemand

Update the domain and protocols in `XIspToolboxControllerConfig.php`

```
const ISPTOOLBOX_BACKEND_DOMAIN = 'localhost:8000'; //@nocommit 'isptoolbox.io';
const ISPTOOLBOX_BACKEND_PROTOCOL = 'http://'; //@nocommit 'https://';
const ISPTOOLBOX_BACKEND_WS_PROTOCOL = 'ws://'; //@nocommit 'wss://';
```

## Pushing New Images to Production

Option 1: Github action

1. push latest code change to github master branch, wait for workflow to complete successfully. Make sure aws cli is configured locally -

   ` git push origin master`

   `aws configure`

2. deploy images to ecs

   `./scripts/deploy_latest_image_to_prod.sh`

Option 2: Scripts for manual push (something broke)

1. login to AWS and ECR repository

   `aws configure`

   `aws ecr get-login-password --region us-west-1 | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin 623762516657.dkr.ecr.us-west-1.amazonaws.com`

2. build docker images locally and change tags, push to ecr

   `./scripts/buildnpush.sh`

3. deploy images to ecs

   `./scripts/deploy_latest_image_to_prod.sh`

## Debugging Django Tests with VSCode

add the following to your test:

```
import ptvsd # @nocommit - vscode python debugger
ptvsd.enable_attach(address=('0.0.0.0', 3000))
ptvsd.wait_for_attach()
```

then run the following command:

```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml run --service-ports django-app python manage.py test IspToolboxApp.<TestPath>
```

`--service-ports` makes port 3000 available for debugging

vscode debugger must attach before the test is run

## Locally run Django Webserver (Ubuntu) (Old steps, follow "Running fbctower locally with WWW OnDemand" unless you really need to run without docker)

### Configure system environment (once):

- `make setup`

Make sure to follow steps printed to console in order to set up a test postgres db. Find them here as well for convenience:

- `sudo -i -u postgres`
- `createdb django_test`
- `psql`
- ` \password postgres`

Set the password to "password"

### Install required packages:

- `make update`

### Perform django migrations:

- `make migrate`

### Run the Webserver:

- `make run`

### Building + Pushing new static Files

Make sure you commit the new staticfiles.json manifest file

- `make static_prod`

### Database Migrations (Standard Django Process)

Run when you have made changes to or added to Django Models.

- `make makemigrations`
- `make migrate`

Test changes locally and unit test if applicable.

Once you're ready to push database schema changes to production:

The latest environment variables are in the `terraform/variables.tf` file

`DB_NAME=django_db DB_USERNAME=fbcmasteruser DB_PASSWORD=<db-password> POSTGRES_DB=isptoolbox-db-prod.cahmkzzberpf.us-west-1.rds.amazonaws.com python manage.py migrate`

# Cypress Getting Started (GUI):

### Requirements:

- Macbook
- AWS EC2 instance

## Running Locally on Macbook (recommended ✅):

1. install node on your macbook `https://nodejs.org/en/download/`
1. install cypress on your macbook `npm install cypress --save-dev`
   - install other npm packages by going to the root of the repository `/ISPToolbox` and running `npm install`
1. on your macbook git clone repository locally - i like the github desktop app https://desktop.github.com/
1. run isptoolbox application on ec2 instance
1. on your macbook `npx cypress open`

## Run Cypress in EC2 (not recommended ❌):

1. install cypress on your ec2 instance https://docs.cypress.io/guides/getting-started/installing-cypress
1. install the following other dev dependencies:

```
npm install -D @cypress/code-coverage
npm install -D @istanbuljs/nyc-config-typescript
```

1. install xquartz on your mac machine
1. ssh onto your ec2 instance using x11
   eg: ssh -Y -i isptoolbox.pem user@instance
1. verify x forwarding works `xclock`
1. `npx cypress open`

## Cypress Headless (CLI):

1. install cypress on your ec2 instance https://docs.cypress.io/guides/getting-started/installing-cypress
1. `npx cypress run`

# Troubleshooting:

### My code works on my dev server but not on the prod image!

1. pull the docker image from AWS ECR

`docker pull 623762516657.dkr.ecr.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/isptoolbox-django`

2. set the environment to point to the production database (create a .env file)

`.env`

```
DB_NAME=
DB_PASSWORD=
DB_USERNAME=
DEBUG=True
POSTGRES_DB=
```

3. run the following command:

`docker run --env-file .env -p 0.0.0.0:8000:8000 -p 127.0.0.1:3000:3000 623762516657.dkr.ecr.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/isptoolbox-django:latest python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000`

### Reverting production to an earlier stable build

1. use the digest hash of the last stable image and tag it as `latest`
   `./scripts/change_latest_image_production.sh <DIGEST_HASH>`

you can see a list of the ecr images in the aws console, or in the workflow step on github

2. update the tasks in ecs, they will pull the latest image
   `./scripts/deploy_latest_image_to_prod.sh`

## Administrative

### M-Lab

- Make BigQueries on M-Lab data [here](https://www.measurementlab.net/data/docs/bq/quickstart/#subscribe-your-google-account-to-the-m-lab-discuss-group)
- M-Lab BigQueries require a google account in M-Lab's discuss group
- FB Google accounts don't allow access to google groups
- Use this account to access instead:
  - Username: isptoolboxmlab@gmail.com

## Overlay Update

### Update Mapbox sources on public."Overlay_overlay" Table

create overlay objects in your sandbox:

`make default_objects`

### Alternatively update the table directly:

_Below are example of SQL Commands_

Example of rdof, tower, and communityConnect

```
INSERT INTO public."Overlay_overlay"(type, source_url, source_layer, created)
VALUES ('rdof', 'mapbox://alexychong.9r5cne0h', 'auction_904_final_simplified-1qpgm7', NOW())


INSERT INTO public."Overlay_overlay"(type, source_url, source_layer, created)
VALUES ('tower', 'mapbox://victorleefb.9l1ok6po', 'towerLocator-3rfxut', NOW())


INSERT INTO public."Overlay_overlay"(type, source_url, source_layer, created)
VALUES ('communityConnect', 'mapbox://alexychong.bp1lmhp5', 'calculated-cc-speeds-shp-casfao', NOW())
```

## Async Task Monitoring with Flower (pronounced flow-er)

url: isptoolbox.io/async/

username: isptoolboxadmin

password: wisplover123

![Alt text](images/flower_signin.png "Title")

### Inspect Running / Queued / Failed Jobs

![Alt text](images/flower_sample.png "Title")

## Why isn't my LiDAR / 3D view loading?

- Check that potree static files are being pulled and are not 404ing
  - if they are you need to recursively clone submodules (potree is a submodule)
    - `git submodule update --init --recursive`
- Check that you have the lidar boundaries loaded in your database
  - `make default_objects`

## Gatekeepers

Configure gatekeepers at: https://isptoolbox.io/admin/waffle/
Grant or block access to certain features
Uses the library: https://waffle.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
Keep in mind the differences between local database and production database

Commit message:

add note on refreshing group permissions

README.md, after:

# ISP Toolbox Webserver

ISP Toolbox Backend Server Code

- powers market evaluator, network cost comparison, los-check, dsm-export
- hosted: AWS, EC2, S3
- database: AWS Postgres
- KV store: Elasticache - redis
- domain: https://isptoolbox.io/

## Development Philosophy:

- Move Fast and Break Things! - Get to market as fast as possible, you want people to use your code and improve connectivity with it
- Don't reinvent the wheel - ["not invented here"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_invented_here) syndrome is real, always research if someone already built what you want
- [KISS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle) - keep it simple, stupid
- [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself) - don't repeat yourself

## Main Technologies / Frameworks:

This is basically the Instagram techstack

- [Django](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/) - web framework + ORM
- [Celery](https://docs.celeryproject.org/en/stable/) - async tasks (things that aren't CRUD)
- [django rest framework](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/) - ORM -> REST API generator
- [Channels](https://channels.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) - websocket interface

All of these frameworks have stellar open source documentation, so be sure to consult them

## Getting Dev Environment Setup

- get AWS account `fbc-tower-design` - bunnylol aws
- create EC2 instance from template
- chmod 400 on .pem file
- ssh using the isptoolbox.pem in the lastpass folder - ask a dev for the pem
- install docker and docker compose

## Docker Note: installing docker on amzn ami (yum package manager - aws package repository)

The commands for installing docker on the AWS ami are slightly different than the official docker docs:

<em>these commands are if the user you are logged in as is `ec2-user`</em>

```
sudo yum update -y; sudo amazon-linux-extras install docker;
sudo service docker start; sudo usermod -a -G docker ec2-user;
```

To make the changes in docker group run this command:

```
exec sudo su - ec2-user
```

- ensure docker daemon is running (dockerd)
- clone git repository
  - make sure you clone all submodules `git submodule update --init --recursive`
- `make setup_dev` to build docker containers - these will have volume mounts - this enables hot reloading code, only re-run this if you've added an npm module or modified the pip/conda dependencies
- `make run_dev` to run locally on localhost:8000

## Make command list

`make setup_dev`

- Installs required packages on system. Should only need to be ran once during first-time setup.

`make run_dev`

- Runs code in development environment
  - gis data is production
  - your local code checkout is mounted as a volume in docker
  - hot reloading should be enabled

`make update`

- Updates and/or installs python packages as definred in requirements.txt via pip.

`make makemigrations`

- Creates django migrations for model changes.

`make migrate`

- Performs django migrations for model changes.

`make run`

- Starts the webserver.

`make run_test`

- Starts the e2e testing version of the server.
  - Server will be slower because of backend instrumentation.
  - Same DB/code checkout configuration as `run_dev`
  - hot reloading disabled

## Code coverage in dev/test

**Prerequisites:** You will need to pip install the following packages on your dev host:

```
coverage==5.5
```

After running tests/doing manual testing on the `run_test` version of the server, stop the server, then do the following:

```
cd webserver
python3 ../scripts/create_coverage_file.py .coveragerc-base .coveragerc-dev .coveragerc
coverage combine
coverage report
coverage html
coverage erase
```

You should have a copy of the integration test coverage under `coverage/htmlcov/index.html`

## Running fbctower locally with WWW OnDemand

1. On your EC2 instance

   `make run_dev`

this will startup the whole backend stack on your machine

in VSCode forward port 8000 to your localhost (macbook)

![Alt text](images/port_forwarding.png?raw=true "Title")

2. On your WWW OnDemand

Update the domain and protocols in `XIspToolboxControllerConfig.php`

```
const ISPTOOLBOX_BACKEND_DOMAIN = 'localhost:8000'; //@nocommit 'isptoolbox.io';
const ISPTOOLBOX_BACKEND_PROTOCOL = 'http://'; //@nocommit 'https://';
const ISPTOOLBOX_BACKEND_WS_PROTOCOL = 'ws://'; //@nocommit 'wss://';
```

## Pushing New Images to Production

Option 1: Github action

1. push latest code change to github master branch, wait for workflow to complete successfully. Make sure aws cli is configured locally -

   ` git push origin master`

   `aws configure`

2. deploy images to ecs

   `./scripts/deploy_latest_image_to_prod.sh`

Option 2: Scripts for manual push (something broke)

1. login to AWS and ECR repository

   `aws configure`

   `aws ecr get-login-password --region us-west-1 | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin 623762516657.dkr.ecr.us-west-1.amazonaws.com`

2. build docker images locally and change tags, push to ecr

   `./scripts/buildnpush.sh`

3. deploy images to ecs

   `./scripts/deploy_latest_image_to_prod.sh`

## Debugging Django Tests with VSCode

add the following to your test:

```
import ptvsd # @nocommit - vscode python debugger
ptvsd.enable_attach(address=('0.0.0.0', 3000))
ptvsd.wait_for_attach()
```

then run the following command:

```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml run --service-ports django-app python manage.py test IspToolboxApp.<TestPath>
```

`--service-ports` makes port 3000 available for debugging

vscode debugger must attach before the test is run

## Locally run Django Webserver (Ubuntu) (Old steps, follow "Running fbctower locally with WWW OnDemand" unless you really need to run without docker)

### Configure system environment (once):

- `make setup`

Make sure to follow steps printed to console in order to set up a test postgres db. Find them here as well for convenience:

- `sudo -i -u postgres`
- `createdb django_test`
- `psql`
- ` \password postgres`

Set the password to "password"

### Install required packages:

- `make update`

### Perform django migrations:

- `make migrate`

### Run the Webserver:

- `make run`

### Building + Pushing new static Files

Make sure you commit the new staticfiles.json manifest file

- `make static_prod`

### Database Migrations (Standard Django Process)

Run when you have made changes to or added to Django Models.

- `make makemigrations`
- `make migrate`

Test changes locally and unit test if applicable.

Once you're ready to push database schema changes to production:

The latest environment variables are in the `terraform/variables.tf` file

`DB_NAME=django_db DB_USERNAME=fbcmasteruser DB_PASSWORD=<db-password> POSTGRES_DB=isptoolbox-db-prod.cahmkzzberpf.us-west-1.rds.amazonaws.com python manage.py migrate`

# Cypress Getting Started (GUI):

### Requirements:

- Macbook
- AWS EC2 instance

## Running Locally on Macbook (recommended ✅):

1. install node on your macbook `https://nodejs.org/en/download/`
1. install cypress on your macbook `npm install cypress --save-dev`
   - install other npm packages by going to the root of the repository `/ISPToolbox` and running `npm install`
1. on your macbook git clone repository locally - i like the github desktop app https://desktop.github.com/
1. run isptoolbox application on ec2 instance
1. on your macbook `npx cypress open`

## Run Cypress in EC2 (not recommended ❌):

1. install cypress on your ec2 instance https://docs.cypress.io/guides/getting-started/installing-cypress
1. install the following other dev dependencies:

```
npm install -D @cypress/code-coverage
npm install -D @istanbuljs/nyc-config-typescript
```

1. install xquartz on your mac machine
1. ssh onto your ec2 instance using x11
   eg: ssh -Y -i isptoolbox.pem user@instance
1. verify x forwarding works `xclock`
1. `npx cypress open`

## Cypress Headless (CLI):

1. install cypress on your ec2 instance https://docs.cypress.io/guides/getting-started/installing-cypress
1. `npx cypress run`

# Troubleshooting:

### My code works on my dev server but not on the prod image!

1. pull the docker image from AWS ECR

`docker pull 623762516657.dkr.ecr.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/isptoolbox-django`

2. set the environment to point to the production database (create a .env file)

`.env`

```
DB_NAME=
DB_PASSWORD=
DB_USERNAME=
DEBUG=True
POSTGRES_DB=
```

3. run the following command:

`docker run --env-file .env -p 0.0.0.0:8000:8000 -p 127.0.0.1:3000:3000 623762516657.dkr.ecr.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/isptoolbox-django:latest python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000`

### Reverting production to an earlier stable build

1. use the digest hash of the last stable image and tag it as `latest`
   `./scripts/change_latest_image_production.sh <DIGEST_HASH>`

you can see a list of the ecr images in the aws console, or in the workflow step on github

2. update the tasks in ecs, they will pull the latest image
   `./scripts/deploy_latest_image_to_prod.sh`

## Administrative

### M-Lab

- Make BigQueries on M-Lab data [here](https://www.measurementlab.net/data/docs/bq/quickstart/#subscribe-your-google-account-to-the-m-lab-discuss-group)
- M-Lab BigQueries require a google account in M-Lab's discuss group
- FB Google accounts don't allow access to google groups
- Use this account to access instead:
  - Username: isptoolboxmlab@gmail.com

## Overlay Update

### Update Mapbox sources on public."Overlay_overlay" Table

create overlay objects in your sandbox:

`make default_objects`

### Alternatively update the table directly:

_Below are example of SQL Commands_

Example of rdof, tower, and communityConnect

```
INSERT INTO public."Overlay_overlay"(type, source_url, source_layer, created)
VALUES ('rdof', 'mapbox://alexychong.9r5cne0h', 'auction_904_final_simplified-1qpgm7', NOW())


INSERT INTO public."Overlay_overlay"(type, source_url, source_layer, created)
VALUES ('tower', 'mapbox://victorleefb.9l1ok6po', 'towerLocator-3rfxut', NOW())


INSERT INTO public."Overlay_overlay"(type, source_url, source_layer, created)
VALUES ('communityConnect', 'mapbox://alexychong.bp1lmhp5', 'calculated-cc-speeds-shp-casfao', NOW())
```

## Async Task Monitoring with Flower (pronounced flow-er)

url: isptoolbox.io/async/

username: isptoolboxadmin

password: wisplover123

![Alt text](images/flower_signin.png "Title")

### Inspect Running / Queued / Failed Jobs

![Alt text](images/flower_sample.png "Title")

## Why isn't my LiDAR / 3D view loading?

- Check that potree static files are being pulled and are not 404ing
  - if they are you need to recursively clone submodules (potree is a submodule)
    - `git submodule update --init --recursive`
- Check that you have the lidar boundaries loaded in your database
  - `make default_objects`

## Gatekeepers

Configure gatekeepers at: https://isptoolbox.io/admin/waffle/
Grant or block access to certain features
Uses the library: https://waffle.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
Keep in mind the differences between local database and production database
